GZD - Transaction Numbering Maintenance
This menu path is used to control the allocation of transaction numbers.  
Only JM and AR transaction numbers are currently controlled by this program.

KandooERP provides various numbering methods for different types of transactions.  

Below is a summary of each method.

#Manual
Manual transaction numbering is the simplest.  On the completion of transaction entry, a 
window opens prompting the user to enter a transaction number.  A transaction number must 
be unique for a transaction type.  This is useful for sites with a small number of 
transactions where the transaction number may need to cross reference an internal document.  
This method is also useful when performing data take-ons where transaction numbers need 
to cross reference transactions in another system.

#Sequential
Sequence transaction numbering is the most common.  Each transaction type is allocated a 
starting transaction number.  Every time a transaction of that type is raised, regardless 
of the entry facility, the starting number is incremented by one and that number becomes 
the transaction unique identifier.

#Account Segment Based
This method is the most complex.  It provides the ability to prefix a transaction number 
with a segment of the revenue/expense account mask for that transaction.  The account mask 
is an overlay which is generated by attributes of the user entering the transaction, the 
type of customer (for AR/JM transactions) the transaction is raised for, or the 
location/warehouse where the transaction occurs.

For example, the second segment of a site's account code is the cost centre with possible 
values of:  100 = Head Office, 102 = Sydney, and 103 = Melbourne.

Each location has a warehouse mask set up with the corresponding cost centre filled in 
with the remainder of the mask equal to “?”.

Using this program, a sequential starting number of '22222' is attached to each of 
the required cost centres.

This results in the first transactions generated from Melbourne having the numbers 
'10322222', '10322223', '10322224',and etc.  Basically, the origin of the transaction has 
been embedded in its number.

The account segment must be numeric.  The length of the segment is an important factor 
when deciding to use this method.  If a segment has a length of four, then only 9999 
transactions may be raised for any one segment.  Likewise, a segment length of three 
may produce 99999 transactions, and so on.

#Program Based
Program based transaction numbering is a simple enhancement to sequential transaction 
numbering.  Each transaction type is given one starting number.  
However, a module (i.e. “A” Accounts Receivable), 
program group (i.e. “A2” - Accounts Receivable Invoices), or a particular program 
(i.e. “A2A” - Accounts Receivable Adjustments) may have its own starting numbering which 
is used instead of the default number.  This is to allow different transaction numbers 
for different types of the same transaction.  Invoice types include Goods Sold, Adjustment, 
Service Fee, etc.